1) Can we attach one EBS to multiple EC2?
2) Can we attach EBS with EC2 which is another region?
3) Types of EBS?
4) What is root volume?
5) How can we attach EBS volume to EC2 instance present in different region - Snapshot concept
6) How to mount volume for EC2 server?
7) Is data lost stored in EBS volume, if EC2 is stopped or rebooted?

AWS EBS Interview Questions and Answers (DevOps Basics)
1. Can we attach one EBS to multiple EC2?
No, a standard EBS volume can be attached to only one EC2 instance at a time within the same Availability Zone.
However, Amazon EBS Multi-Attach is supported for io1 and io2 volumes, which allows a volume to be attached to multiple EC2 instances simultaneously, but only with certain instance types 
and for clustered applications like Oracle RAC.

2. Can we attach EBS with EC2 which is in another region?
No, EBS volumes are region-specific. You cannot directly attach an EBS volume to an EC2 instance in a different region.
To move EBS volumes across regions, you can use snapshots.

3. Types of EBS?
AWS offers the following EBS volume types:

General Purpose SSD (gp2 / gp3) – Balanced price/performance.

Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1 / io2) – High-performance SSD for mission-critical workloads.

Throughput Optimized HDD (st1) – Low-cost HDD for frequently accessed, large data.

Cold HDD (sc1) – Lowest cost HDD for infrequently accessed data.

Magnetic (Standard) – Previous-generation, not recommended for new deployments.

4. What is root volume?
The root volume is the primary EBS volume that contains the operating system (OS) of an EC2 instance.
It is attached automatically during EC2 creation and is typically /dev/xvda or /dev/sda1.

5. How can we attach an EBS volume to an EC2 instance present in a different region (Snapshot concept)?
To move an EBS volume across regions:

Create a snapshot of the existing EBS volume.

Copy the snapshot to the target region using the AWS Console or CLI:
aws ec2 copy-snapshot --source-region us-east-1 --source-snapshot-id snap-12345678 --destination-region us-west-2

Create a new EBS volume from the copied snapshot in the target region.

Attach the volume to the EC2 instance in the target region.

6. How to mount volume for EC2 server?
Steps to mount EBS volume on a Linux EC2:

Attach the EBS volume to the EC2 instance via the console or CLI.

Login to EC2 via SSH.

List devices:
lsblk

Format the volume (if new):
sudo mkfs -t ext4 /dev/xvdf

Create mount point:
sudo mkdir /data

Mount the volume:
sudo mount /dev/xvdf /data

To make it permanent, add to /etc/fstab.

7. Is data lost from EBS volume if EC2 is stopped or rebooted?
No, data is not lost.

When an EC2 instance is stopped or rebooted, the attached EBS volumes (including root volume) remain intact and data is persisted.

If an instance is terminated, then by default only the root volume may be deleted (based on the "Delete on Termination" flag).
Other attached volumes remain unless explicitly deleted.

