Here are AWS CLI-based scenario questions tailored for Operations (Ops) teams, useful for interviews, real-world troubleshooting, and on-call simulations.

🔧 Setup & Identity Scenarios
A developer says they’re getting AccessDenied errors. How would you verify who they are and what permissions they have?

Use: aws sts get-caller-identity, aws iam simulate-principal-policy

Your environment variables are misconfigured. How would you check and fix AWS CLI credentials?

Use: aws configure, aws configure list

☁️ S3 Scenarios
A backup job failed. How do you check if the S3 bucket exists and has the expected files?

Use: aws s3 ls s3://bucket-name, aws s3 cp

You need to delete all objects inside an S3 bucket before deleting the bucket. How do you do it via CLI?

Use: aws s3 rm s3://bucket-name --recursive, then aws s3 rb s3://bucket-name

How would you sync daily reports from a server to an S3 bucket?

Use: aws s3 sync /reports s3://mybucket/reports/

🖥️ EC2 Scenarios
An EC2 instance is unresponsive. How do you restart it via CLI?

Use: aws ec2 reboot-instances --instance-ids i-xxxxx

You need to find which EC2 instances are tagged as Environment=Production.

Use: aws ec2 describe-instances with jq or use aws resourcegroupstaggingapi get-resources

You accidentally terminated an instance. How do you check when and who did it?

Use: AWS CloudTrail or aws ec2 describe-instances for last known metadata

📊 CloudWatch Scenarios
How do you check the CPU usage of an EC2 instance for the last hour?

Use: aws cloudwatch get-metric-statistics

A Lambda function is failing silently. How do you pull logs via CLI?

Use: aws logs get-log-events

How do you list all available log groups and their retention periods?

Use: aws logs describe-log-groups

🛢️ RDS Scenarios
An RDS instance was stopped accidentally. How do you bring it back up?

Use: aws rds start-db-instance --db-instance-identifier mydb

How do you create a snapshot of an RDS instance before applying a patch?

Use: aws rds create-db-snapshot

You want to clone an existing RDS into another environment.

Use: aws rds restore-db-instance-from-db-snapshot


⚙️ IAM Scenarios
How would you verify if a user can launch EC2 instances?

Use: aws iam simulate-principal-policy

How can you identify all users with S3 full access?

Use: aws iam list-users + list-attached-user-policies

A new team member needs read-only access to EC2. How do you provide that?

Use: aws iam attach-user-policy

☸️ EKS Scenarios
You’ve joined a new project. How do you connect your kubectl to their EKS cluster?

Use: aws eks update-kubeconfig --name cluster-name

A pod is crashing repeatedly. How do you investigate using CLI only?

Use: kubectl get pods -A, kubectl describe pod, kubectl logs

📦 ECR Scenarios
You need to push a new Docker image to ECR. What steps do you perform via CLI?

Use: aws ecr get-login-password | docker login ...
docker tag ...
docker push ...

How do you clean up old image tags in a repository?

Use: aws ecr list-images, then aws ecr batch-delete-image

🌐 Route53 & CloudFront Scenarios
How would you check if a DNS record exists for app.example.com?

Use: aws route53 list-resource-record-sets

After updating an S3 website, content is stale. How do you invalidate CloudFront cache?

Use: aws cloudfront create-invalidation

📋 Tagging & Cost Scenarios
How do you find all resources tagged as Owner=DevOps?

Use: aws resourcegroupstaggingapi get-resources

Your monthly AWS bill spiked. How do you break down costs by service?

Use: aws ce get-cost-and-usage


🛠️ Bonus Automation Scenarios
You need to automate a daily health report across EC2, RDS, and S3. Which commands would you include?

How do you set up a cron job to sync local logs to S3 every night?

How would you write a shell script to restart EC2 instances in a specific tag group during non-business hours?

